RELATIONAL DATABASE FOR NGO IN BURKINA FASO

The project clean water will consist of 15 regions serving as a pilot for the implementation of the Clean Water initiative.  
Each location will have at lease one water station and each water station will have a minimum of two water pumps.
Each location will have a name, a geographical location for the water station, a number of customers served, a coordinator/ location liaison, and a START_DATE/ date the station entered in service  for the station. Each coordinator will have a name, contact number, location, salary, assigned maintenance team.
Each pump will have an identification number, a serial number, a make and model, a purchased price, number of hours in service, and a supplier name, contact and address.
The project will also have a maintenance team and supplier team. Each maintenance team will be in charge of one or two water stations. The team will have a supervisor with supervisor name, id, contact, email and start date. The supervisor will have a team of maintainers to manage and carry out the different maintenance requests. The maintenance team will track and record every maintenance performed on any motor and for every location. They should record the issue, the request number and requester name and contact, the motor status afterwards, the motor hours and next maintenance routine. They will also report the cost of maintenance for their trip and the time it took to fix the problem. The suppliers will have contact names, contact addresses, locations, telephone numbers, and quantity in stock of the products their are selling. Their will be assigned a maintenance liaison or a coordinator for each location. A location coordinator can request maintenance for his/her station, and a maintenance team supervisor can provide service to a station. A supplier can provide motors to a location coordinator or to a maintenance supervisor. A coordinator or maintenance clerk can also order a motor (or parts) from the suppliers. The suppliers keep a log of orders, delivery locations and dates, and receivers. A team of financial clerks will be in charge of the main budget of the project and will record input and output of funds, orders placed, total amount spent on motors, and total amount spent on maintenance. Each clerk will have an id, name, address phone number, email and salary. They will be collecting order details such has order date and order total from suppliers and maintenance expense on each intervention. 

A project coordinator supersedes the implementation of the project. He/she has access to the locations database and can query the different tables. For example he/she can find out how many water stations are in service, and how many maintenance teams are active. he can also pull a list of all coordinators and contact them via emails in order to discuss the next phases of the Clean Water initiative. The data will be accessed through a database graphical interface designed specifically for the project coordinator , his locations liaisons and maintenance supervisors. Each of these individuals will have different levels of access in the database and will have to log in to their respective accounts in order to view or possible enter data pertaining to their sections.
The technical side of the project will need a programming code that will be installed on a  programmable  logic unit(Microcontroller) which will run the water pumps. The motors will be pumping water into a water tower for each location and  will have a secondary motor as a back up. The desired output is that the main function will begin pumping water and storing it inside a water tower until the water reaches a certain level. Next, water will be dispensed to customers/inhabitants on a daily base and each time the water in the water tower reaches a low level marker, the main pump will automatically start pumping water ti refill the water tower. The secondary pump is only called into play only when the main pump breaks down; the faulty main motor should trigger a message recorded in the Microcontroller then sent via a GSM unit in order to alert the maintenance supervisor and the location coordinator of the maintenance issue. The secondary pump will then start automatically if the water level is low. Otherwise, the GSM unit will be sending a message reminder to the maintenance team every 3mn to alert of the situation; then the secondary pump will  wait for a message reply from the maintenance supervisor to start pumping water. I will need a program which will illustrate the desired function for a station with two motors( main and secondary) and one water tower, four motors( 2 main and 2 secondary) with two water towers. I will then need a simulator that can display the motors, the water level sensors, the towers, the GSM unit and the whole system interacting the way the program was designed. The last part of the technical portion of the project is to provide a geographical information system to the NGO. It will have all  15 regions located on a map, and each location will have information displayed when the user rolls the cursor over it. Each location will have its name, the name and contact of the coordinator, the number of water pumps in service,  the name and contact of the maintenance supervisor. They will also have the total amount spent on the location in order to render it functional and the number of people it is currently serving.

